---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Newcomer Economic Disadvantages
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2015-09-08
labels:
  - Economic
---

  In this challenging world, more and more peoples migrate to the other country for the better career, not to mention settling in a new country is not a cakewalk especially country like a Canada. People may face some or all of these problems such as Environment, Economy, Culture, Food, Employment, etc. In this essay, I would focus on the economic challenges that people might have when they come to Canada.

  To begin with, being wealthy is not going to facilitate, if you move to the different nation where the foreign exchange rate is higher. There is range of services available new country such as healthcare, social services and juridical, which are come at a price. Healthcare is comparatively costly to the other countries for Canada. According to the reports, In Canada, Bill for the doctor’s visit is ranging between $54 to $150, if we compare this figure with a country like India where it would be $10 to $15(Carmen, 2013). Furthermore, if they have cancer then financial hardship becomes more complicated. For an example, test, surgery and chemotherapy racked up nearly $25,000 and if you travel to the long distance then fuel costs, parking and stay cost sums up with thousands of bucks (Canadian Cancer Society, 2012). If we compare this number with the country such as India, it would be 80% less costly (Chandralekha, 2015).  Amanda(n.d.) says that annual medical insurance is ranging between $2000 to $2500 for the family. In short, being fit in a new country is challenging. 

  Each year Canada welcomes 250,000 immigrants, which shares 21.9% Canadians are immigrants (Eric, 2017). More people in a certain community area increase the prices of the house. Cities such as Toronto and Vancouver which has more job are the hottest market for most immigrants seek to live, which results in high prices of the homes. Mortgage rates could move higher as the demands seem high. In last few years, house price sore up to 9.5% (“Average house price in Canada up 9.5% to $448,862”, 2015). Furthermore, rental house prices in apartment range between $900 to $2000 for 1BHK or 2BHK in cities like Hamilton, if we compare same prices in cities like Toronto or Vancouver it would be ranging between $2000 to $3000 (Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation [CMHC], 2015). In addition to this, a homeowner on annually pays an average $780 for the home insurance which would be their 2.5% income for that year after tax, which is not easy bill for the person who has a family.

  Thirdly, most of the immigrants are younger, age between 21 and 30, many of them have dreams to pursue their goals in order to do that they join the institute. In Canada, tuition fees for the international students are three times more than the domestic students. For an example, a fee in mohawk college for the Manufacturing Engineering Technician is $4870.52/year for a domestic student, where $15719.19/year for the international students (Mohawk college, n.d.). Not only this, but other hidden expenses are also there such as student have to buy instrument requirements for that program, books for subjects, which accumulate 10% of their total fee cost.

  Furthermore, getting a job with a decent salary is a primary goal for any person, but for the newcomers, it is biggest problems because there are language barriers and foreign degree needs credentials. Not only this, most of the employer consider the experience of the host country. Time is money, for getting on time at a job many jobs requires own vehicle, which cost 25% of income. Lastly, other bills such as mobile bills, hydro bills, long-distance calls and groceries are also burdened for newcomers.

  To conclude, living in the new country and settling up is not an easy task. Immigrants solve the problem that they had faced in other nations; such as terrorism or communist. Life is challenging, Currency exchange rate makes big differences for the new economy. Given figure shows that how the cost affects the life of newcomers. 
